# Estimating-the-Size-of-the-Disturbance-in-Frequency-Events-using-Multivariate-Data-Analytics
Microgrids face frequency stability challenges, especially after disturbances like generation loss. This study presents a methodology to estimate disturbance size during frequency events, applied in the Santa Cruz – Baltra microgrid using multiple linear regression and Monte Carlo simulations.
Microgrids, defined as interconnected loads and distributed energy resources operating within clearly defined electrical boundaries, can function either connected to or isolated from the main grid. These systems face critical challenges related to frequency stability, especially following significant disturbances such as the loss of electrical generation, which is particularly problematic in isolated microgrids or those lacking an effective Load Shedding Scheme (LSS). This work presents an innovative methodology for estimating the size of disturbances during frequency events, which is integrated into an adaptive LSS. The methodology is applied to the Galápagos Santa Cruz – Baltra microgrid, using multiple linear regression models. Additionally, it is complemented by a contingency analysis based on Monte Carlo simulations, obtaining critical data such as minimum frequency (Nadir), rate of change of frequency (RoCoF), settling voltage (Vend), and settling frequency (fend). The evaluation conducted across seven different scenarios demonstrates the high effectiveness of multiple linear regression in predicting the size of disturbances, highlighting its potential to enhance the stability and reliability of microgrids.
